# Project Euler Solutions
This repository contains a collection of Python programs I've written to solve problems on Project Euler.

The challenge is for each algorithm to be efficient enough that is solves the problem in less than one minute.

## 1. Multiples of 3 or 5
Find the sum of all multiples of 3 or 5 below 1,000

## 2. Even Fibonacci numbers
By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

## 3. Largest prime factor
What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?

## 4. Largest palindrome product
Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers.

## 5. Smallest multiple
What is the smallest positive number that is evenly divisible by all of the numbers from 1 to 20?

## 6. Sum square difference
Find the difference between the sum of the squares of the first one hundred natural numbers and the square of the sum.

## 7. 10001st prime
What is the 10,001st prime number?

## 8. Largest product in a series
Find the thirteen adjacent digits in the 1000-digit number that have the greatest product. What is the value of this product?

## 9. Special Pythagorean triplet
A Pythagorean triplet is a set of three natural numbers, *a < b < c*, for which,<br>
    a<sup>2</sup> + b<sup>2</sup> = c<sup>2</sup><br>
There exists exactly one Pythagorean triplet for which *a + b + c = 1000*.<br>
Find the product *abc*.

## 10. Summation of primes
Find the sum of all primes below two million.

## 11. Largest product in a grid
Given a 20x20 grid of numbers, what is the greatest product of four adjacent numbers in the same direction 
(up, down, left, right, or diagonally)?

## 12. Highly divisible triangular number
The sequence of triangle numbers is generated by continued summation of the natural numbers. 
For example, the 7th triangle number would be:<br>
    1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 = 28 <br>
This is the first triangle number to have over five divisors (1, 2, 4, 7, 14, 28).<br>
What is the value of the first triangle number to have over five hundred divisors?

## 13. Large sum
Work out the first ten digits of the sum of a given one-hundred 50-digit numbers.

## 14. Longest Collatz sequence
The following iterative sequence is defined for the set of positive integers:<br>
    *n* → *n*/2 (*n* is even)<br>
    *n* → 3*n* + 1 (*n* is odd)<br>
Using the rule above and starting with 13, we generate the following sequence:<br>
    13 → 40 → 20 → 10 → 5 → 16 → 8 → 4 → 2 → 1<br>
It can be seen that this sequence (starting at 13 and finishing at 1) contains 10 terms.<br>
Which starting number, under one million, produces the longest chain?<br>
**NOTE:** Once the chain starts the terms are allowed to go above one million.